[jazzy music]
(cheering)
MATT: Hi! That was-- hi. Good to see you guys.
Thank you all for coming and welcome to our panel
about nerdy-ass D&D discussions.
(cheering)
MATT: I'm going to take a seat for a second then
I'll probably sit at the front of the table
because this seems a little formal to me. Welcome,
everyone! If you don't know who I am, my name is
Matthew Mercer, I'm a voice actor, Los Angeles,
California and I'm a huge nerd. I've been playing
D&D and other RPGs most of my life, both video
game and tabletop. In recent years, have had
something weird in my life happen where a lot of
other people have gotten invested in my D&D game
as much as I am. It's been incredible. I have a
show called Critical Role.
(cheering)
MATT: Me and a bunch of other nerdy-ass voice
actors that are friends of mine began playing at
home privately years ago. We were asked to stream
it on Twitch, and now coming up on our third year
anniversary, which is crazy.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: And many more!
MATT: Yeah, we're not going anywhere. I mean,
cameras or not, we're still playing. For now,
everything's pretty kosher. We started streaming
it, and we were very scared to stream it because
when you put anything you love on the internet,
it's a dangerous, scary thing. Especially tabletop
gaming, which had been a largely misunderstood
genre and hobby for a long time. The idea of doing
it so people could just watch it seemed like
folly. I was like, "No one's going to-- this is
"just opening us up to everyone telling us how
terrible we are and to go away." Thankfully, I was
very wrong for the most part. There's still that
factor, and I expect that. That's fine. We've
found this incredible community of people that not
just watch our adventures and are invested in our
adventures, and do stories, and art, but go off
and create their own, which is what I really want
to was use it as a platform to empower other
people to create their own adventures. To find a
new hobby they didn't know was out there or didn't
understand how to get into or rediscover it
because it had been a long time since they had
given themselves permission as an adult to get
back into it. Then doing so, find incredible
friend groups and reconnect and find, in my
opinion, is one of the best uses of your social
time with a close group of friends. There's really
no experience like playing a tabletop RPG, in my
opinion. It's been really amazing and I feel like
a proud papa, seeing all these people out there
who either got into D&D through our show, or other
streaming services, got back into it and they tell
me about their adventures, and their characters.
Sometimes for a while. But that's cool, because
that was me for a long time. They'd be like, "You
"play D&D?" I'd be like, "Oh yeah! Let me tell you
about my dwarf fighter!" And they slowly turn to
ash. It's been incredible. These recent years,
seeing what this panel's about, the tabletop
renaissance that a lot of people are talking
about, is seeing what was once a hobby that had
difficulty being understood, being respected in a
lot spaces for many of years, and suffered through
the Satanic panic of the 80s. Recently, thanks to
things like Stranger Things, thanks to Twitch and
live play introductions that have been going for
years, even before we started ours, now into other
forms of media. It's not just being proud to say
that you play Dungeons & Dragons, but more and
more people are asking, "I've always wanted to get
into that. Do you know anybody or do you know how
I can learn?" We have great people like Matt
Colville who are doing YouTube channels about how
easy it is. Colville! How easy it can be to run a
game and all aspects of it that I know I was very
scared of as I got older and tried to dive into
it. Now is great time to learn and a great time to
dive into it. It's super exciting. I'm super
excited. We had a very emotional end to our last
campaign in October. A game that we ran for five
years. Characters that we, in many cases, lived
and breathed to the point where, you guys didn't
see this, but before we went live last Thursday,
Travis turns to Taliesin across the table and
went, "Percy, I was--" and we all slowly turned to
Travis and said, "Did you just call him Percy?" That's
when we realized that it was probably best that we
ended the last campaign. We're starting to blur
that line a little intensely. No end of shit going
forward for that. We ended that campaign, it was
very emotional. For the past few months, it's been
a lot of preparation for the new campaign, which we
just started.
(cheering and applause)
MATT: Which was a very nerve wracking experience
to build for. Are you--
AUDIENCE: Yeah.
MATT: Are you?!
(cheering and applause)
MATT: See now, that's some devil magic, right
there! We have officially, from what I've seen in
person, the first full cosplay of one of our
characters! Two days after!
(cheering)
MATT: Jester, stand up and take a bow!
MATT: What's your name?
ARIANA: Ariana!
MATT: Ariana, amazing job! That's awesome!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Take a picture for Laura!
MATT: Oh my god! Oh yeah! Actually, come up and
I'll take a picture and send it to her.
(cheering)
MATT: Just because watching Laura freak out is
amazing, as you've seen. She's so much fun to mess
with. Go ahead, take a pose for me! Yay! Thank
you!
(cheering and applause)
MATT: That's so cool! So stuff like this happens
now, which is crazy! To put it into context, we
were already pretty nervous going in because when
we started streaming originally, they were
characters we had already been with for a few
years privately, so everyone was very sure of
themselves and their personalities, story arcs, we
just opened it up to the world. This was a new
campaign. Everyone keep this in mind, too: while
we've been playing this for a number of years, for
a lot of our party, it was their second campaign
ever because the first arc, Vox Machina was their
first experience playing a role playing game. They
were super nervous about it!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Except for Liam!
MATT: Except for Liam, Taliesin, me, and Marisha,
everyone-- I'll switch over to this one. We're
sitting down at the table and getting ready to go
live. Everyone's getting jittery and they're
nervous going, "Oh my god, I hope it's okay!"
Travis goes and checks the numbers. Two minutes
before we go live and he's like, "There's 70,000
people on Twitch." We're like, "What?!" He goes,
"I think it's broken." Reloads it. "Oh, now it's
80." All of us turn pale. I'm curious to go back
and watch our faces on the VOD to see how all of
us are just--. "Hi." The total numbers came in
between the platforms; we were streaming to
Twitch, YouTube Live, and Alpha and I think,
between them all, we hit 125,000 people watching
live.
(applause)
MATT: Watching us play Dungeons & Dragons. As many
of you out there who grew up in the same era I
did, back when this thing was very taboo, it
wasn't an understood thing, that's crazy! That's
nuts! It's magical, it's perpetually magical.
We're so appreciative of all of you. Yeah. We
don't know what's happening. We have no idea.
We're just holding on by the seat of our pants and
hoping we don't mess it up. Thank you guys for
being so supportive, thank you guys for being so
awesome and as excited as we are. Then taking this
example of what we're hoping to be an example of
goodwill and sharing it with everyone else and
being a continuation and an extension of that.
Seriously, really appreciate it. Give yourselves a
round of applause for that!
(applause)
MATT: It's been a huge part of my life. I owe a
lot of who I am as a person, I owe a lot of my
career and my skills, socially, to growing up
playing role playing games. It's a space where you
can therapeutically work through issues in your
life through a character that's other than you.
It's a place where you can find empathy for
personalities and people and different walks of
life and in different situations than those you're
in.
MATT: It's a place to express frustration and
anger in a safe area sometimes, against monsters
and terrors and great evil bad beings that can be
a representation of the things in life that have
you hurting. It becomes a really great place for
you to learn empathy, to learn expression, to
learn to be open and be sometimes sensitive with
friends through the comforting veil of another
character. It's allowed me to learn a lot about
myself, how to be a friend, and it's led to many
of my standing friendships throughout my whole
life. I owe a lot to roleplaying games, D&D
specifically. That being the case, and having the
chance to do panels like this and meet guys like
you and hear your stories, that's nutrition to me.
It keeps me alive, it really excites me. Marisha
can say, it's exhausting in a weird way how
overwhelming the positivity is, and it's
absolutely wonderful. It's so much bigger than us.
We're a show, we're a group, we're a game group of
friends, but the community, the Critters, what you
guys put out there, it eclipses anything and
everything we do. Even if we may be the core of
that community, you guys continue to be what makes
all this worth it more. Not trying to get too
emotional, it's a lot of reflection, especially
with last week's first campaign-- conversation.
I've talked a lot at you for the beginning of this
panel, so I'd love to talk with you and have
questions to ask, ideas and stuff. We have a
microphone here at the front. If you have
something you want to discuss, bring it up to the
front here and get in line. Try and keep it
somewhat concise and not too many layered
questions, because I want to try and talk with as
many of you as possible. We probably won't be able
to get through everybody, but I'm going to try.
And please move at a respectable speed.
(chuckling)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you, Matt!
MATT: No worries. All right.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Matt, what time did your flight
get in on Friday?
MATT: My flight left at 8am Friday morning. I had
to wake up at 5am and after the nerves, the
jitters of that first campaign on Thursday, I
didn't get to sleep until about 3am. So I got two
hours of sleep, woke up, went to the airport, got
another hour and a half on the plane, because you
know, plane, and then went right to my signing
yesterday! I might seem a little frazzled over the
past 24 hours, I apologize, but there's a good
reason. Yeah, fair enough. Sorry! Hi.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, hello again.
MATT: Hello again. What's your question?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We had similar conversations when
I could get ahold of you about-- with the
campaigns that I'm currently in, that I was
considering starting to stream them or record them
or novelize them or something. Because I didn't
get that idea until after the first session, which
is basically the session zero, where they had who
everyone is, meeting in the tavern, that sort of
thing. Are you still able to start something akin
to Critical Role, where you record for the games
even if you miss the very first session, because
the first session has all of the backstory stuff
so far?
MATT: Yeah. Most stories, whether it be film,
television, novel, the first chapter isn't you
learning everything about the characters. There's
a lot of elements of their life that's already
happened, and part of, for the reader, what's
interesting is to fill those gaps. Like for the
new campaign, I did a session zero with all the
players before we started streaming it. It was a
prelude that was both a space for them to feel
comfortable, this is a little private thing that
they have for themselves to figure out their
character. That way when we come into the session
that first episode, you already feel like it's a
lived-in world as opposed to everyone awkwardly
going, "Hi, I'm a tiefling." There's a little bit
of that too, but that happens with any beginning
of the campaign. Don't feel like you have to
front-load all of the exposition or all of the
information, all of the backstories up front. If
anything, it makes the world feel more like you're
getting a glimpse at a living space, if people
continue to act and be without all of the
information available to you. It's already
happened and it's still happening. Don't feel like
that should be constraining to you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: And also, aside from D&D, which
is the d20 system, do you have any other systems
you like in terms of tabletop games, and why?
MATT: This is a whole long discussion, and I'm
trying to keep it concise so we can get to the
next question. The Fate system I've enjoyed a lot
of times. I've played Traveler and Diaspora, which
are both fun games, both hard sci-fi and weird
sci-fi. Especially Traveler, because it's one of
the few games where you can die in character
creation. Because you get to choose your
character's path in life, what jobs they do, and
if they go into more dangerous jobs, they learn
better skills to start with, but there's a chance
that if you have a dangerous job, you'll get
killed on the job and have to start over. It's
kind of fucked. The old school Deadlands system,
which is phenomenal. It's a little more
complicated. It's not as streamlined as the newer
one, but the idea that casting spells is you
playing a card game with devils and demons, and
the better hands you get against the DM or the GM
of the game who's playing the devil's side gets
you different abilities based on the spell you
want to do. It's got a lot of really cool old
Western elements. There's also the Amber Diceless
Roleplaying Game when I was in high school based
off the Amber series, and that was interesting but
that takes a lot of trust because without dice,
it's a lot of you all deciding together what
succeeds and what fails. That can lead to
arguments, I learned very quickly, if everyone
isn't on the same page and trusts each other at
the table. Those are a few examples of what I've
enjoyed. I've heard good things about the newer
Star Wars systems. Haven't tried that yet. Anyway,
I have to get to the next question, but thank you, man!
ORGANIZER: Real quick guys, keep it to one
question only. If you have a second question, go
to the end of the line and then ask your second
one.
MATT: Hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello! Oh gosh, that was loud. I
just wanted to say that I really look up to you
and your storytelling. Your descriptions and stuff
is amazing. I wanted to know-- I'm sorry if this
has been asked before, but do you have any tips or
advice for anyone, writers or bored GMs,
storytellers, in how you come up with such great
descriptions and such vivid images of things that
are all in your head?
MATT: For one, reading a lot. It helps expand your
vocabulary. There's a lot of words that you'll
come across in books and be like, "I don't know
what that means." You look it up and be like,
"That's cool, and now I know that word and I can
use it." That was huge for me growing up and
continues to be whenever I have time to read. A
cool way to keep that sharp moving forward. Also
consider when you're setting a scene, it's not
just visuals. Consider all the senses. Consider
ways that you can set a scene with both what
they're seeing, what the temperature of the room
is, if there's a certain acrid or iron-like taste
in the air, or if it's very cold and causes their
teeth to feel pain when they breathe in. Is there
a specific sound of distant shaking, or perhaps
water dripping off wall condensation? Think of how
the different senses are affected when you set a
scene, and that helps immerse your players or
whoever's reading your story as you get into it.
That's a big topic, but from running a game
standpoint, I find those are good little tricks
whenever you open a new sequence, a new location
for the players to immediately pull them into the
world and help them imagine exactly where they
are. That helps the immersion, it helps the
players get ready to dive into it in character.
That's a really quick tip that I hope will be helpful.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: No worries, thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: How's it going?
MATT: Good! How're you doing?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good. In the new campaign when
your players are talking to you about the new characters--
MATT: Yes, which by the way, I do want try and
avoid spoilers, in case people haven't seen the
new episode.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: And they came to you with their
ideas, did any of them come to you with an idea
that made you go, "Ooh, hmm, no?"
MATT: Generally, no. Not my players. I've had that
happen in the past. If a player wants to play a
character of a certain kind, I'm not going to tell
them not to. I might help them finesse it, or let
them know in some situations where it's going to
be difficult based on the world we're playing in,
or they don't understand issues that might come
up. For instance, if somebody was like, "I have a
"charisma of eight. I want to be a warlock!" I'd be
like, "Maybe let's try to mix up those stats a
"little." There's certain concepts that may not be
the strongest concept. In fact, we have a few race
and class combinations in the new campaign that
are by no means optimal when you consider
min-maxing character strengths. But that's also
cool because you get combinations you wouldn't
expect. To me, it's more important to create a
character idea then it is to create something
that's optimally powerful. If you can do both and
that's your game, that's fun too. But I don't
think that should hinder you necessarily. There's
never been a concept that I've shot down. I can
help players finesse it if they're unsure, or if
they're trying to feel out how this would fit in
the world, then I'll work with them, and we'll
talk over their story and talk about their
abilities and how that might fit for their
narrative down the road. It's rare that I shoot
something down unless the person is a real dick.
"My concept is a person that sets children on
"fire!" I'm like, "Eh, I don't know if that's going
to play well with the rest of the group, buddy."
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Lasts one second.
MATT: Yeah. Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey, Mercer.
MATT: Hi!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a question. What do you
think was the worst decision that Vox Machina ever did?
MATT: Ooh, personally. That's a lot of
decisions. Let's see.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Goldfish!
MATT: That's a member of Vox Machina. Vox Machina
as a whole? Oh, man. To be perfectly honest, not
checking for traps at the tomb of the Raven Queen.
Because that led to a chain of events that led to
a very sad story.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It was really bad.
MATT: Yeah, but it made for a great narrative. Not
all things have to be positive, there are a lot of
things to gain. Yeah, there's always and urge as a
GM to be like, "I want this to end up okay. I want
it to be all right." A lot of times, that's a good
thing, but some stories are powerful because it
doesn't work out in the most positive light.
That's realistic, and sometimes that's a very
healing experience to go through that. I know it
was hard for some people in the game to deal with
eventualities in the narrative and missed
opportunities, to be vague. But overall, I think
it made for a more impactful story and memorable
one. It's an example of sometimes, you have to let
the narrative guide where it's going as opposed to
try and shoehorn a happy ending. Unless your
players are all in a really bad place in the world
and you're like, "Uh, and everything's okay!"
Because at the same time, you want your players to
have a good time.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's not happening. Sorry. Hi,
I am asking you for advice for both my daughter
and I as a player and gamemaster. When you get two
people in your group who all of a sudden start--
they're 40 years old, but they start acting like
13-year-old middle school boys on crack-- and it's
all fun and games until they almost get you
killed, or as in my daughter's case, her character
killed on stupid side things. How do you rein that
back in? You don't want to be a killjoy and say,
"Okay, no fun, no jokes," but how do you rein it
back in so they're focusing on the group as a
whole and not dying in a bar fight?
MATT: Couple things. One, if it's really hampering
the narrative and it's preventing a lot of people
from having a good time, talk with them about it
outside of the game. After a session where it gets
particularly bad, you can be like, "Hey guys,
before we leave," or, "I'm going to take a moment
here, I just want to talk," for the sake-- Any
time you're at the table, you try and find a
balance between being respectful of everyone
else's good time and not trying to derail it
constantly before other people want to go. For the
most part, a lot of times, because it is a very
free environment, people will want to be impulsive
and, "I'm going to do what I want!" That's fine to
a certain extent, but you do have to be respectful
of everyone else at the table. Otherwise, you
probably won't be invited back to the table.
You're supposed to play the game as a
collaborative experience. Even though there can be
tension, there can be moments where there can be
conflict inside. People can be selfish if it's in
character, but if it's so much to the point where
nobody else is having fun and that's a problem
with the way you're playing the game, maybe this
table isn't where you should be playing. There are
tables that that might work at. There might be a
bunch of powergamers who are down with the idea of
being crazy and weird. I've had those games too
and they're fun, but you have to make sure
everybody's on the same page. Talk with them about
it, and if they continue to do it, or you want to
teach them a lesson, sometimes make those choices
lead to a very bad-- not TPK scenario, but if
they're getting in serious bar fights all the
time, they're going to get arrested. They're going
to get imprisoned. They're going to get
interrogated. They're going to get branded as a
criminal on the shoulder. Whoever the head of the
guard there is going to take a personal liking to
make sure that he makes their life miserable. Now
they're a watched individual. Every town they go
into, everyone seeing their face grimaces. Now
it's a, "Oh my god, there's consequences to your
actions!" That's a way to do it too, where you
don't have to kill the character, but you can
certainly shame them!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I like that, thank you!
MATT: Yeah, shame!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey, Matt, nice to see you
again.
MATT: Hey buddy, good to see you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I work at the local children's
hospital, and I want to, at some point in the
future, introduce Dungeons & Dragons to the
children there. But all I've ever done as a DM is
DM for adults. Do you have any advice for DMing
for children and how young they should be before
they get into it? Also, is it at all possible to
see how Victor the black powder merchant is doing?
(laughter and cheering)
MATT: First part, I'm going to relay what I've
heard from other people. I've run a few games for
kids. Liam has a lot more experience with this.
Sam recently did it. Patrick Rothfuss runs it for
his son. One, the best thing you can do is keep
the math minimal so you can focus on the
narrative. If you're teaching kids math, that's a
different thing, but make it so it's more of a
storytelling thing. The dice roll, maybe a
modifier here and there, but however way you can
simplify the rules. I'm sure there's people online
who have more reduced home rule versions of D&D
for kids if you research enough. I've seen a few
out there; it's pretty cool. Second, steer away
from focusing on the violent combat aspects of it,
and focus more on the problem solving, like
communal problem solving. One thing that Patrick
Rothfuss does for really young kids, I find, is
not give them a weapon. Give them some magical
items and some tools, and it challenges so they
have to think of creative ways to get out of it.
He gave his son no weapons, but gave him a rope
that ties itself, and then put him in a dungeon
area where all he had was his rope. He ended up
using it to tie up monsters, maybe ask them
questions and eventually convince him to help him
out. Then throw the rope up to climb areas where
it was dangerous or use it to wrap around things
he could swing across. Let them become creative
and problem solve without always having to kill
things. As adults, we can keep a difference, but
you're not going to teach a bunch of kids that
"Sometimes the best thing to do is slaughter your
opponent." That's maybe not the best thing to
teach them. Gauge the group to see if they want
high adventure or if they want dark. Liam was
surprised when his daughter and all of her female
friends wanted to play, and he's like, "What do
"you want to play?" and they all went, "Curse of
Strahd!" and he was like, "Okay." The more he ran
it, the more that they were craving some good,
scary horror, and so he felt it out. You feel out
the group at first. You play it soft and see what
they're interested in and then gear it more
towards their style, but simplify it, focus on the
story and narrative. Problem solving and
challenges I think are generally more interesting
than always having combat, although combat can be
fun depending on how old the group is, and be
conscientious about it. Those are a few. The
opposite side, I don't want to confirm anything
because I like to see anybody else's
interpretation. My personal mind-- and I'm not
saying this is canon, because I don't want to kill
anybody else's idea-- I like to imagine in that
final battle, one of the loud explosions that you
heard in Vasselheim was him lining the entirety of
his shop, all of his explosives with a torch in
his hand, (as Victor) "They'll never take me
alive!" and a bunch of cultists come in right for
him, and in that final moment as he lures them all
in, he took them all out with him. That's how I
like to imagine it.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Matt, when will Elder Scrolls:
Exandria happen, and will Wildemount be DLC for it?
MATT: I mean, talk to your local Bethesda. That
would be crazy! Pretty cool. I'd love that. Heck
yeah, I'd love that! It's crazy to me that there's
even a book that's out there and it's something I
made up. That's crazy to me, so that, I can't
even. If I think too hard, I'm going to bleed from
my nose. Ugh, aneurysm. I hope so! Hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! My husband and I both DM, but
I think the thing we struggle with most is having
memorable characters, and that's something that
you are absolutely well-known for. What is your
advice on coming up with characters that people
will remember their names four weeks later, that
kind of a thing?
MATT: Right. For one thing, depending on how you
create your character, whether it be
random-rolling for-- Take a low statistic
somewhere interesting in your character, whether
it be super low strength-- they're super weak and
have a hard time getting around. If you want to be
real hardcore Dark Souls-level, go a super low
constitution and be super-- One thing about a
unique character is a serious flaw, or a number of
serious flaws that makes them human. It makes them
easy to connect with. That doesn't necessarily
have to reflect in their statistics, but in the
5th Edition rules, they do a good job of
introducing players to bonds and flaws and
personality traits, and it's a really good
introduction to that. Play up the character you
create. What are their long-term goals? I think is
an important thing so they know at least what
they're eventually driving towards. What's their
short-term goal, what is it they're trying to
accomplish right now, and the use of having this
other party. How are they intending to make this
group of new friends help them get to that goal?
Consider the things that they really don't like
and try to avoid. Is it confrontation with family?
Is it a specific type of creature that they had a
bad experience with, that they're always looking
over their shoulder for, like a bogeyman-type of
thing? Is it they have a fear of public speaking?
Is it an issue with law enforcement? They're like,
"I've dealt with the man!" which will always get
them in trouble, which is fun, too. Find certain
things that you can write down and stick to that
may get your party in trouble. Because, honestly,
some of the best experiences are getting your
party in trouble. Try and find common ground
between the characters. Conflict is good and
that's why a lot of my campaigns, I'll talk to the
players and ask them: If any of you have previous
relationships, what are they? As opposed to having
the awkward we all meet at a table and don't know
each other and introduce ourselves like an AA
meeting, and now we're fighting, adventuring! I
find if you have a little bit of back history that
you develop together, you already come in feeling
stronger connection with those characters, and
that strong connection between the two of you has
the other players wanting to engage more with that
because they want, "Oh, I want that!" There's no
real trick to it, more consider the whole spectrum
of good things about them, bad things about them,
wants, goals, fears, and write them down. It won't
be perfect at first. It's a messy process,
figuring out your character. To be fair, all of us
at the end of the first episode of the new
campaign, we're like, "Okay then! That was better
"than expected." We were all waiting for it to fall
apart, and even then after, we're getting phone
calls from the players like, "Okay. I think I'm
getting an idea now." So it's a process. Those
hopefully might help a little bit. Could be a long
topic.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, thank you!
MATT: No worries.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Matt. I'm a newer fan, and
I'm new to tabletop games.
MATT: Welcome!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: And I notice that you recognize
this exceptional cosplay.
MATT: Yes!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: There's several cosplays in the
room, and this being the Critical Role panel, if
possible, before the end of the panel, could we
get everybody get a photo with you so we have all
the cosplays together?
MATT: I think that's a glorious plan.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: All right, thank you.
MATT: (Gilmore voice) Glorious plan.
(applause)
MATT: We'll get the cosplayers up at the end of
the panel for one group photo at the front of the
audience. Awesome.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Matt!
MATT: Hey, buddy!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: As a DM, I've thrown my fair
share of challenges at my players, like the time I
threw a dragon turtle at you all, and you turned
it into a tortoise.
MATT: That's adorable!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It still upsets me. Anyways, I
love doing that. I love challenging my players in
fun, creative ways like that, but at times, it
does feel like it's an arms race at times, because
they really like to murder things! What advice
would you have for a DM that's struggling to
challenge the players and have them develop
personalities and adventures like your characters,
that go on for years and years?
MATT: For one thing, it is an arms race in a
weird way, because it's you trying to outsmart
multiple other people as a dungeon master. That's
supervillain territory. That's you going, "These
"are my peers that I respect and love, and we're
all on a very equal playing field as far as
"intellect goes--"
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Let's murder them!
MATT: Yeah. And they're all trying to beat my
stuff! For one thing, it's fun when you have a
group that are all, "We can do a lot of damage!",
you're like, "Oh, that's cool. That doesn't help
if you fight a lot of creatures that you can't
damage." You can only defeat them by discovering
these three relics throughout this area and
destroy them at this one pillar, but while that's
happening, it's stalking them the entire time. The
fear of "We cannot touch this thing." Coming up
with challenges where the creature can only be
damaged if you acquire this one NPC and have them
within a proximity of it because their backstories
are tied, but you have to keep them alive as much
as you're also getting ready to damage this thing.
Coming up with abilities that the creatures can
have that can shut down or convert party members
to its side. Nothing's better than sinking your
party against itself, by the way. It's a
delightful thing. In fact, it's really frustrating
when Grog's berserk ability allows him to ignore
charm effects. I was like, "Ugh! Oh man, it could
"be so much fun! Just want to tear him apart from
the inside." You have to think outside of the box,
and remember, even the creatures in the Player's
Handbook, if you're like, "This creature, I've put
"up against them before, or something similar to
it, and they stomped it." You look at it and go,
"Well, they stomped it because they have a lot of
damage output, this creature, they resist a lot of
"the abilities that it can put on them or
conditions." Nothing's stopping you from
customizing it. Nothing's stopping you from
changing it. Which is great, too, if you have a
group of players that have been playing for a long
time and they already know what creatures can do.
Nothing's better than having them fight something
like, "Don't worry guys, it's resistant to fire!"
Or it's vulnerable to fire, and they do Fireball,
and it's all of a sudden immune. They're like,
"Wait, what?" because suddenly they don't know
where they are. They don't know what's going on.
The real fear creeps into their eyes. Don't be
afraid to customize monsters. Consider encounters
that sometimes cannot be won by sheer damage
output. Sometimes rely on conditions as a
difficulty factor. If a creature has a radial
stun, that's going to mess things up real fast.
Especially if it's on a five- or six-regeneration
thing. Every few rounds or so, all of a sudden,
half of the party is stunned. That sucks. For
them.
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you very much, Matt. I
appreciate it.
MATT: No worries. I'm sorry about your party, by
the way.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It's okay. I live with them.
MATT: Hi!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! Love your show. Not really a
D&D question, more about you and your team. You
and Travis and everyone did an escape room
together.
MATT: Oh yeah!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That was awesome, but I want to
know, how did you get into that? How'd that happen?
MATT: We've been a fan of escape rooms anyway, me
and Marisha. We've done a few of them. They were
doing a show for Alpha at the time called "Escape"
where they were asking people to do different
escape rooms, and they had one that was a Harry
Potter sorcery theme. They were like, "Well, get
"the Critical Role people," and we were like,
"Yeah!" Chris Sabat, voice of Vegeta, was in town
and they're like, "Well, get him in!" He's like,
"I don't know what I'm doing," and we're like,
"Great!" It was a fun escape room they invited us
to do, and we totally almost got there and lost at
the very last second, which was frustrating. That
was them asking us to do it from an internal Geek
& Sundry standpoint, but they knew we were fans of
escape rooms. My proposal to Marisha, actually,
was I designed and built an escape room that was
Lovecraft-themed. We were all sneaking, me and
Taliesin and a bunch of a friends were sneaking
off for days at a time. "I had to record, I had
"sessions back-to-back these days. Well, see you
this evening!" Then we'd drive down to Huntington
Beach. This friend of ours had a warehouse, and
we're building flats and getting old furniture and
made an escape room for her. Escape rooms are a
thing we're fans of, but I think I've built the
only one I'll ever build, because they're a pain
in the butt!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Matt.
MATT: Hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a question about-- I don't
want to be too spoiler-y, but toward the end of
the last campaign, talking about missed
opportunities. That was one of the more visceral,
emotional moments that I've seen in almost
anything.
MATT: I know what you're talking about.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: What's going through your head
both as the DM and as Matt, his friend, when
you're seeing a player go through that kind of
emotional reaction, both as him and as his character?
MATT: Part of that is checking in with the player.
The player involved-- we had many discussions
outside of the game about the possible paths the
character might take. It was very much a, one,
where do you see the character wanting to go? What
are the decisions he'd make based on certain
scenarios, and are you comfortable with pursuing
this regardless of how it turns out? Making sure
that the player was okay with that because, once
again, you want to make sure they're having a good
time, and you don't want to, for the sake of,
"Well, the dice said," completely destroy somebody
who's going through a hard time in their life. You
have to be conscientious of that. Check in with
them, make sure everything's okay, make sure
they're okay with going along with whatever
happens. If they say no, then you can be like,
"Okay, well, maybe we'll take a break from this
"scenario for a little while and come back to it
until you're ready." Or if it's a real scenario,
you can salvage it and-- So a part of you is the
dungeon master. You have to be true to the
narrative, but you also have to be respectful of
your players there and make sure that they're
still having a good time and you're not putting
them in a place that isn't at the time mentally
healthy for them. It's a hard balance, but it's
one that only comes with experience, and making
sure that you still respect the people that are
giving you the time to be part of your story.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good to know that locking people
in a room until they accept a proposal is a good idea.
(laughter)
MATT: Works in a lot of scenarios, I find!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I've never DMed anything before,
and I'm trying to set up a low-magic 5E campaign,
so that completely eliminates a lot of classes.
How do I go about fixing any of this?
MATT: You can have a low-magic campaign and have
magic characters. Just consider that they
understand that having magical abilities is
probably very rare and probably very feared. If
it's a world where there's almost no magic and
somebody suddenly throws a Fireball, anybody in
the vicinity's going to be like, "Chain them up.
That's a problem." Consider it can be a very
fugitive-type game where they're trying to keep
their abilities on the DL. They're trying to hide
it from society. You can also consider maybe magic
itself is visceral and dangerous. You can have an
element where if they roll really low on an
attack, like wild magic-wise, and whenever they
cast a spell, roll, and if it goes really badly,
they lose control and it might hurt them. You can
think of narrative reasons as to why magic is
still a dangerous and sparing thing.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Oh, like a Spellplague.
MATT: That can work out, yeah! Are we talking
spell plague, like Warcraft? Like Plague?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Forgotten Realms.
MATT: Okay, there we go. Yes, that can work well.
Oh, Blood Plague is what I was thinking of. Old
WoW players know what I'm talking about. They were
watching the desolation of Ironforge. You can
tailor classes if you want to. You can tell
people-- if you really want no players to be
casters, you can have them multiclass down the
road if magic becomes more prevalent, if they'd be
interested. Or you can reduce the overall damage
of spells if you're keeping combat more tailored,
but that gets a little more fiddly with the
customization, and if this is your first time
DMing, I wouldn't recommend messing with it that
much.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, I already created two
classes for it.
MATT: Okay, so you're already down the path!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I needed a healing class.
MATT: Fair enough. But then you consider healing--
some abilities may not be spells, they can be
variations to it. For instance, maybe they're an
alchemist. Maybe a Fireball is a giant sphere of
some concoction they made and they throw it and it
explodes and has the same damage and the same
radius, but it's not necessarily magical. Or a
healing spell can be somebody who is a fantastic
field medic and has a bunch of salves and
medicinal herbs that they can jam into their
wounds real fast, and it's a Cure Wounds spell.
You can find ways to tailor existing rules, take
away the narrative magic aspect of it to a certain
extent-- it might be a little unwieldy. In the
higher levels-- Ice Storm! Turn the AC on very
high! By then, maybe there's other ways you can
narratively consider the use of magic in the
world, but those are some ways you can go about
it. I hope that's helpful.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You already addressed my first
question earlier in the day, so I guess my
question is, early on in the first campaign, you
said, "Make a bear pun, an angel loses its wings."
How can you look at yourself in the mirror after
Honey Heist?
(laughter)
MATT: Look. My wife ran that game. Many of you in
the audience will understand they had no choice.
She was amazing! It was her first time ever
running an RPG! And Honey Heist is a game designed
for bear puns. There's a difference between too
many bear puns in a game that isn't Honey Heist
and being in a Honey Heist where it's practically
in the rule set. I didn't feel too bad about that,
we knew what we were getting into with that.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: She did an amazing job and in all
seriousness, I think I can speak for everybody in
this room when I say how important you and your
players are to our week, every single week.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey. First of all, I want to say
I really appreciate you and all of you guys being
sensitive about spoilers, because I haven't gotten
that far into Critical Role.
MATT: That's why I was being careful.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah. Second thing is a question,
and it is, as a DM and also as a player, how do
you balance planning with your character sheet and
stuff, or DM obviously, versus improv and
off-the-cuff stuff? Just think of it when you're
there?
MATT: That can change either way, often. Part of
what's the thrill of the game is preparation
usually gets thrown out the window as a dungeon
master when the players make contact with your
plans. People always say a plan never survives
contact with the enemy. Same deal when it comes to
running a roleplaying game. The balance for me
preparation-wise is not to prepare too much super
detailed. Because more often than not, you will
end up throwing out the hours of work that you did
for this whole thing that never happened, the
party completely missed. Instead, spend a little
bit of time with bullet points and basic notes
that can give you the general idea of a direction
it can go or a location they can be at. That way
if it doesn't go to, you didn't lose too much time
with it, you can always bring it back later. If
they go to it, you have enough written down that
you can quickly make up the rest, fill in the
gaps, and hope that process allows you to loosely
prepare a lot more possibilities and as such, be
more comfortable. As a player, I mean, your job is
to mess with the dungeon master. Your character
sheet is your preparation, and then you come to
the table and you see how you can fiddle and ruin
their work. (sighing)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess then all of the pile of
maps you had is not strictly necessarily.
MATT: Yeah, I know. There's a lot of maps that
never get seen. But at the same time, I would
prefer-- those are all map ideas that I take a
picture of or save in case they come up later in
the campaign or the ideas can be reused, so they
don't all go to waste. And I would prefer to
prepare things just in case and have them go away
then railroad my players to go, "I worked so hard
"on this map, you're going to fight here, dang it!"
It comes with the territory, I suppose. Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Mercer, first off, thank you
for streaming. I've never been to a con, I've
never played Dungeons & Dragons.
MATT: Oh, welcome!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I feel like a fangirl. (laughter)
It's not me! So, I was always curious. When I got
hooked in the first campaign, it was right around
the time when Percy died. I happened to be on
Twitch, I was watching it. Yeah, spoilers, sorry
guys. Now everybody's mad. But that night Marisha
seemed distraught and pissed, and I was always
curious what happened after the stream was over.
MATT: Whenever anything intense happens in the
stream, people always make jokes like, "Oh, Matt's
"sleeping on the couch tonight!"
(laughter)
MATT: No, it might be all of us afterward going
and getting a drink if something really emotional
happens. That happens almost every time something
really big happens. We'll all go to Timmy Nolan's,
which is this little Irish pub in Burbank, not too
far from us. We'll all just have a drink, (long
groan), commiserate, but there's never any anger
or frustration outside that. A lot of times it's
in-character, and sometimes it's just frustration
with the scenario, but we all respect each other
too much to direct it at each other. We're lucky
enough that we have a long-term friendship, and
we've played long enough where we don't do that.
That's not always the case at game tables. I've
been in games where people do allow those emotions
to bleed, to directing it at a person outside of
the game, and that's unfortunate and unhealthy,
but those are things you just talk about
afterward. If you notice that happening, go to
that player, go to that dungeon master, and be
like, "Hey, what's up, man? Let's talk this out.
How can we go forward and not let this bother each
"other again? Understand this isn't me, this is the
character." Those conversations can happen.
Thankfully, we don't have that problem, because
we've been through enough together and we all
appreciate and respect each other.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay. It just seems like after,
you guys mentioned that whenever somebody died,
you guys all go and get a drink together.
MATT: Yeah, and we do every time something really
crazy happens.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's a lot of drinks.
(laughter)
MATT: Oh man, I'm scared for this new campaign.
They're all level two right now. Oh man! Oh boy!
It's so funny, they rolled their characters, and
Liam's like, "I have 12 hit points." I'm like, (cackling)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Swarm of rats!
MATT: Oh man, we had our session zero, the first
hit Laura's character took, she went to zero hit
points, and I was like, "Oh no! Little different
now, isn't it?"
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: They're basically gods, right?
MATT: Yeah, basically gods! It's fine, it's great!
I'm sorry.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! So, I've known you of voice
actor fame before I got into Critical Role. Last
Thursday was actually my first episode.
MATT: Oh, welcome to the chaos!
(applause, cheers)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So I was wondering if you have
ever been tempted to work in, or have ever
actually done it before, slipped Easter eggs of
past characters that you've voiced into Critical
Role or not?
MATT: I would say I've never tried to slip Easter
eggs outside of the game into it, because I want
to keep it very separate. The more I bring in pop
culture elements, like the side jokes and stuff,
the more I think it can break immersion. I want to
keep it wholly of our own realm. But there will be
character voices that I've used in projects that
will bleed over into it, partially because I like
to voice a lot of characters! There's going to be
a lot of voices that are similar, and a lot of
voices you've already heard. That's a little
frustrating. I'll do a character and I'll be like,
"Yeah, let's have a woodsy kind of farmer type.
I'll do a sort of Southern accent like this." And
everyone's like, "Oh look, it's Adara from
Pillars!" I'm like, "No, all right." That's going
to happen, but generally I try to keep it
separate.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you so much.
MATT: Thank you. All right, we've got about ten
minutes left, so I'm going to try to get through
questions pretty quickly. I'm probably not going
to get through everybody. If I miss you, I'm so
sorry! We're going to try. Question?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey. I just wanted to ask, after
just finishing the entirety of the first season of
Critical Role, what's your process for creating
deeper and more memorable characters that stick
with the players?
MATT: Honestly, it's hard to force a character to
be beloved by the players. Sometimes, for a lot of
NPCs, you don't expect them to latch on and they
do. So there's no real--
CROWD: Gilmore!
MATT: Gilmore is a perfect example! I never
expected for it to continue that way. But I'm glad
they did, because he is an amazing character.
There's no way to engineer it, necessarily, but as
long as you flesh out NPCs that have a similar
dynamic-- as I said earlier about making your
players more three-dimensional, and having a
series of positive/negative things about them, you
will comfortably begin to portray them as a
dungeon master in a much more realistic way, and
that will read better. If you involve the NPC in a
scenario where they either save the party, or
tremendously help them out of a jam, they're
immediately going to go, "That guy's awesome!
"We're going to go back to that guy!" or "That lady
saved our butt, and we're going to go ahead and
"pull her into this next storyline," so that's
really helpful. Or for villains, also. Not every
villain is black and white. Consider a lot of
enemies or villains don't see themselves as the
villain. Some of the better ones feel like they're
doing it for the right, and nobody else
understands or it's selfish reasons, but for them
are, good for me, bad for many other people.
Thinking about what makes them a three-dimensional
villain makes them a very unique and memorable
villain. Remember, some of the best villains get
away and come back later! Especially if they're
intelligent. Not everything stays to die. Not
everything is like, "I'm going to stay until I'm
"at zero hit points!" (death groans) So they're
like, "I'm at half health. This is not going well.
"Peace!" (poofs) That's frustrating for the party
too, because then you have the, "I'll get you!"
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: No worries.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Matt, how you doing?
MATT: Good, how you doing?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm doing great. Thank you for
being an inspiration to myself and all these
amazing people I can now call Critters, because
they are fantastic people!
(cheering)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We plan to call every single one
of them brother and sister, because of this
awesome community. Thank you. I hope that this
continues on for as long as possible.
MATT: I hope so too.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I DM, I run multiple games. My
Thursday is a game, and then straight to Critical
Role, because it's just all the hype. You
reinvigorate me after maybe a session didn't do
well, or whatever, but it's just so great. So I'd
rather use up my question to tell you thank you so
much, and can you bless my dice?
(cheering, laughter)
MATT: Thank you very much. Good color scheme.
That's a natural 20 on the first roll.
(applause, hollering)
CROWD: Take a picture! Picture!
MATT: Whoo! I love when the dice work for the
narrative! (laughs) I was waiting for it, like,
"This is going to be a one, I know it."
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey man, so thank you for being
the leader for the tabletop renaissance, you and
everybody in Critical Role. I was there the very
first day that you guys streamed. The minute you
guys finished, I knew we'd just changed history
forever.
MATT: Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: And because of the renaissance,
I've now been growing my own blog and everything
else, and now I'm actually a big part of the D&D
Twitter community.
MATT: That's great!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah. So I'm actually really
everywhere in there now. I also commented about
your corruption at the tables. (laughs)
MATT: Glad we finally got to put that out there.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I can't believe my Dark Arcana
stuff will need to come out, not like that. I'll
tag you for that one. But I wanted to ask, because
every DM has their own, what kind of DM prep
rituals you go through?
MATT: I have a very specific playlist I listen to
when I'm writing my game. It's a soundtrack that
is a symphonic version of the Chrono Trigger
soundtrack, mixed with symphonic Final Fantasy VI
soundtrack. Those games played such a role in my
youth, in my formative creative years, that just
having those running puts me in the mood to write.
So I'll put that on, the music. I've also found
that Minecraft soundtrack that is now on Spotify
is actually really good writing music too! It's
just nice and atmospheric in the background. Other
than that, rituals involve making sure that my
place is set. I know exactly where everything is
behind my DM screen, I have my dice box here with
the dice in there, I have my folder here, I have
the preparation sheets of the session here, I have
maps to the side, I have platforms over here, I
have a drink here, I have a music setup here, I
have an actual specific layout, that to me the
ritual is placing everything in place before the
game. And if I'm running late, I don't have time,
I'm gonna flip out, and nobody can talk to me!
Like, "Hey Matt, can I just like--" (roars) "No!
Setting it up!" I'm scared how I am at those
times, in hindsight. So the setup ritual is, for
me, definitely a ritual.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: One last thing. I couldn't make
it to the line in time, could I roll a persuasion
check to just get a quick signature?
MATT: Unfortunately, if I do it to one, it opens
up to chaos here, and they have to rush me out
here thereafter. Are you going to be here
tomorrow?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: No, I won't. I have to fly.
After?
MATT: Well, I'll see what I can do. It's a
slippery slope. A lot of people are also in a
similar situation. I want to do as much as I can,
but it gets to a certain point to where it's unwieldy.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: But thanks!
MATT: Thank you, buddy.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey, Matt.
MATT: Hey, buddy!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Actually, my first question is,
how do you guys remember three hours of your
script every-- No, I'm kidding!
MATT: (laughs) Well, we spend the whole week
rehearsing leading up to it. We got like four
days, we have dress rehearsal on Wednesday, it's
great.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, so I was going to say, I
actually started DMing because of you guys.
Completely custom world, everything. One of the
things I've struggled with, I've watched DM Tips
and everything, how do you keep track? I'm trying
to keep the game flowing, trying to keep the
narrative going, trying to get my players
involved, and I struggle. They'll ask, "Oh, what's
"this guard's name?" "Oh, his name's Jim." "Okay,
great." How do you keep track of that? If I stop
to write the notes, I feel like I'm slowing the
narrative down sometimes. How do you keep track of
that stuff during the game?
MATT: When the players are talking, especially to
each other, that's where you write down notes. So
when you think up, "That guy's name is Jim." All
right, cool, you meet Jim, you talk about Jim, and
as soon as they're like, "All right, where do we
go next?" Just be like, (quiet mutter) "Jim." Not
necessarily writing in the moment, if you feel
like you need to stay engaged, continue to do so,
and the moment they start talking to each other,
listen, and write a note. Assuming they do it a
lot, just be like, "Oh, they're talking? Cool. Ah
yes!" It's finding the balance of the downtime
when they're all focused on you, that's when you
can go ahead and write your notes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Awesome. Appreciate it.
MATT: No worries.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: All right, I'm running out of
time. A voice actor that I think would be really
good to be on Critical Role, and that Mary knows:
Steve Blum! Why can't we get him on Critical Role?
MATT: Look, you think we haven't tried? It's
interesting. This has been a unique experience,
since we started the show. A lot of people are not
comfortable streaming their D&D game. We've asked
a lot of people. One of the frustrating things
I've had is we've tried to invite a lot of people
on from different diverse backgrounds and
ethnicities, because we're a bunch of white kids
who play D&D--
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Nerdy-ass voice actors. We get
it.
MATT: Yeah. It's shitty that in order to bring
more diversity into our show, I'd have to fire
friends from our group, and I don't want to do
that. So our guests are an opportunity to bring
more people in, but a lot of people I've reached
out to about it are like, "Nah, I'm good. It's a
"little nerdy for me."
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I hope we're not that
intimidating to them.
MATT: Well no, but for some people it is and I've
noticed that. Steve, very much, he's like, "I
"don't want to do this online." But the more that
it's gone, and the more that people have been more
welcoming in the community, it's been more
positive, it's starting to turn around. Deborah
Ann Woll, who you know from Daredevil and stuff,
we asked her to be a guest two years ago, and she
said no. She said, "This is a personal thing for
me, and going on the internet in front of a lot of
people to flame me for this, I don't want to do
it." I completely understand and respect that.
Since then, she's been like, "It's actually fun."
We've hung out a bit, she's really cool, so I may
try and bring her in for a guest in this season.
So we'll see. It's starting to change, but it's
been a challenge to get people to come in, because
when you're on the internet, you're exposing a lot
of yourself in a space that's improvised and very
open and very sensitive and the internet isn't
always kind. We're trying!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: No worries. Thank you. I think we have time
for one more question. I'm so sorry for those who
didn't make it! I'm so sorry! I apologize, but I
love you all.
(audience sighing, applause)
MATT: Look at this amazing man! Jeffrey?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You son of a bitch.
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I love you, man.
MATT: That's awesome. Hi, buddy!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. Met you earlier today for the
autograph session, and I said it earlier and I
want to say it again, but I didn't start with
Critical Role or you; a friend actually
recommended me towards Matt Colville, and I saw
his Running the Game series, and that made me see
DMing as less difficult, scary, or so much hard
work. That's what inspired me to actually start
pursuing Dungeons & Dragons again. To start
running the game, and then I found you, and that
inspired the way that I want to DM. Much less
murder hobo and stuff like that, just
storytelling. One thing I've run into that I
find difficult and I wanted to ask was, of all the
voices that you do and the characters that you've
made, how would one get into voice acting to make
those voices, to make these characters feel so
much more unique and their own with the voices
that you do?
MATT: Basically how to develop voices for the
game?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.
MATT: Practice. Whenever I'm in the shower, whenever I'm
driving my car, whenever I'm by myself, for the
most part (occasionally when Marisha's around),
I'll be improvising, doing impressions, or trying
to come up with weird voices and dialects. I talk
to myself a lot. That's a good place to figure
things out. If you come up with an interesting
voice that you've never done before, you can pull
up your phone and record yourself and you can
listen to it later to replicate it. The more you
practice these different voices, the more
comfortable you are pulling them out at the drop
of a hat. Also, when you write down NPCs or you're
creating characters for your campaign, taking
notes of what kind of voice it is is a really good
reference point whenever you have to go back to
the character. You could write, "low gravelly," or
"high-pitched and reedy," or "cockney accent," or
"really terrible Russian accent." Things that when
you glance at the NPC sheet, you already have a
ballpark idea of where they were before, then you
can jump into it. It comes with experience. It
comes with listening and repeating and trying to
copy other voices out there. Even if you don't
become a good impressionist, in the process of
trying it, you'll find your own unique voices,
different things you didn't know you could do
beforehand. Recording yourself, listening to it,
practicing, and don't be afraid to try them out in
the middle of the campaign. Even if your friends
give you shit for it, they're your friends, it'll
be fine.
[applause]
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just want to say you're an
inspiration to us all. Thank you for the advice.
MATT: You guys are an inspiration to me!
MIC RUNNER: Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls
of all ages, let's give it up to Matt Mercer!
That's our time for today.
MATT: Thank you!
MIC RUNNER: At this time, I want to ask the
cosplayers: please follow this young lady right
over here. We're going to go backstage real quick.
Cosplayers only.
MATT: You guys are amazing!
MIC RUNNER: The Critical Role cosplayers, sorry.
Critical Role cosplayers, allow me to specify.
Once again, I need all Critical Role cosplayers.
Please come step to the side.
[jazzy piano music]